README.md, before:

# 🧠 Smart Reminder Service

[![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-17-blue.svg)](https://www.oracle.com/java/)
[![AWS Lambda](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS%20Lambda-Serverless-yellow?logo=aws-lambda)](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/)
[![API Gateway](https://img.shields.io/badge/API%20Gateway-REST-orange?logo=amazon-aws)](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/)
[![S3](https://img.shields.io/badge/S3-Storage-569A31?logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white)](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)
[![DynamoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/DynamoDB-NoSQL-blue?logo=amazon-dynamodb)](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/)
[![Amazon EventBridge](https://img.shields.io/badge/EventBridge-Scheduler-brown?logo=amazon-aws)](https://aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/)
[![Amazon SES](https://img.shields.io/badge/Amazon%20SES-Email-lightgrey?logo=amazon-aws)](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/)
[![AWS SAM](https://img.shields.io/badge/SAM-IaC-FF9900?logo=aws)](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/sam/)

> It's easy to forget the things we want to do for ourselves, especially in the middle of a busy week.  
> This project offers a simple but powerful solution: users can schedule daily or weekly email reminders with motivational quotes to stay on track.

---

## 📚 Table of Contents

- [Tech Stack](#-tech-stack)
- [Features](#-features)
- [Architecture Diagram](#-architecture-diagram)
- [How It Works](#-how-it-works)
- [Live Demo](#-live-demo)
- [Deployment (via SAM)](#-deployment-via-sam)
- [Screenshots](#-screenshots)
- [Possible Improvements](#-possible-improvements)
- [Contact](#-contact)

---

## 📌 Tech Stack

- **Language:** Java 17
- **Build Tool:** Maven
- **Frontend:** HTML + Tailwind
- **Cloud Services:**
    - **AWS Lambda** – for serverless compute
    - **Amazon API Gateway** – REST API endpoints
    - **Amazon S3** – Static website
    - **Amazon DynamoDB** – user storage and reminder setup info
    - **Amazon SES** – sends reminder emails
    - **AWS SAM** – infrastructure as code (IaC)

---

## ✨ Features

- ✅ Set reminders by email, message, time, and day(s)
- 📧 Receive email reminders with quote of the day
- 🕗 Scheduled execution using EventBridge (cron jobs)
- 🗃️ User preferences stored securely in DynamoDB
- 🌐 Static frontend served via S3

---

## 📐 Architecture Diagram

![Architecture Diagram](assets/architecture_diagram.PNG)

---

## 📖 How It Works

1. User opens the S3-hosted website and enters:
    - Email address
    - Reminder message
    - Time (UTC)
    - Days of the week

2. The form sends a POST request to an API Gateway endpoint which triggers a Lambda function that saves data to DynamoDB.

3. A second Lambda is triggered daily by EventBridge at 8:00 AM UTC(you can specify the time based on your needs). It:
    - Scans DynamoDB
    - Matches users whose reminder time + day match current UTC time
    - Fetches a quote of the day
    - Sends a personalized email via SES

---

## 🧪 Live Demo

![Live Demo](assets/live-demo.gif)

---

## 🚀 Deployment (via SAM)

> ⚙️ **Pre-requisites**:  
> Make sure you have the **AWS CLI** and **AWS SAM CLI** installed and configured locally with appropriate credentials.

```bash
# 1. Build
sam build

# 2. Deploy
sam deploy --guided

```

---
## 📖 Screenshots

### ✅ Lambda - ReminderSetupFunction
![Lambda SignupFunction](assets/remindersetupfunction.PNG)

### 📦 Lambda - SendReminderFunction
![Lambda - VerifyFunction](assets/sendreminderfunction.PNG)

### 🔔 S3 - Static Website
![S3 - Static Website](assets/aws-s3.PNG)

---

## 🧭 Possible Improvements

- Cognito login + user dashboard
- View, edit, and delete existing reminders
- Quote style selector (funny, deep, business)
- Styled unsubscribe footer and branding

---

## 📬 Contact

Built by **Kamran Zeynalov**

[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-blue?logo=linkedin&style=flat-square)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zeynalov-kamran/)

Commit message:

flow summary added to readme

README.md, after:

# 🧠 Smart Reminder Service

[![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-17-blue.svg)](https://www.oracle.com/java/)
[![AWS Lambda](https://img.shields.io/badge/AWS%20Lambda-Serverless-yellow?logo=aws-lambda)](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/)
[![API Gateway](https://img.shields.io/badge/API%20Gateway-REST-orange?logo=amazon-aws)](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/)
[![S3](https://img.shields.io/badge/S3-Storage-569A31?logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white)](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)
[![DynamoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/DynamoDB-NoSQL-blue?logo=amazon-dynamodb)](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/)
[![Amazon EventBridge](https://img.shields.io/badge/EventBridge-Scheduler-brown?logo=amazon-aws)](https://aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/)
[![Amazon SES](https://img.shields.io/badge/Amazon%20SES-Email-lightgrey?logo=amazon-aws)](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/)
[![AWS SAM](https://img.shields.io/badge/SAM-IaC-FF9900?logo=aws)](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/sam/)

> It's easy to forget the things we want to do for ourselves, especially in the middle of a busy week.  
> This project offers a simple but powerful solution: users can schedule daily or weekly email reminders with motivational quotes to stay on track.

---

## 📚 Table of Contents

- [Tech Stack](#-tech-stack)
- [Features](#-features)
- [Architecture Diagram](#-architecture-diagram)
- [How It Works](#-how-it-works)
- [Live Demo](#-live-demo)
- [Deployment (via SAM)](#-deployment-via-sam)
- [Screenshots](#-screenshots)
- [Possible Improvements](#-possible-improvements)
- [Contact](#-contact)

---

## 📌 Tech Stack

- **Language:** Java 17
- **Build Tool:** Maven
- **Frontend:** HTML + Tailwind
- **Cloud Services:**
    - **AWS Lambda** – for serverless compute
    - **Amazon API Gateway** – REST API endpoints
    - **Amazon S3** – Static website
    - **Amazon DynamoDB** – user storage and reminder setup info
    - **Amazon SES** – sends reminder emails
    - **AWS SAM** – infrastructure as code (IaC)

---

## ✨ Features

- ✅ Set reminders by email, message, time, and day(s)
- 📧 Receive email reminders with quote of the day
- 🕗 Scheduled execution using EventBridge (cron jobs)
- 🗃️ User preferences stored securely in DynamoDB
- 🌐 Static frontend served via S3

---

## 📐 Architecture Diagram

![Architecture Diagram](assets/architecture_diagram.PNG)

### 🔄 Flow Summary

1. The user accesses the static website hosted on Amazon S3 to set a reminder.
2. The frontend sends a POST request containing the user’s reminder details to an API Gateway endpoint.
3. The API Gateway triggers the ReminderSetupFunction (an AWS Lambda function).
4. The ReminderSetupFunction stores the user’s data (email, message, time, day(s)) in Amazon DynamoDB.
5. Every day at a scheduled time (e.g., 8:00 AM UTC), Amazon EventBridge triggers the SendReminderFunction.
6. The SendReminderFunction scans DynamoDB to find reminders that match the current time and day.
7. If a match is found, it generates a personalized email (including a quote of the day) and sends it via Amazon SES.
8. The user receives the reminder email in their inbox.

---

## 📖 How It Works

1. User opens the S3-hosted website and enters:
    - Email address
    - Reminder message
    - Time (UTC)
    - Days of the week

2. The form sends a POST request to an API Gateway endpoint which triggers a Lambda function that saves data to DynamoDB.

3. A second Lambda is triggered daily by EventBridge at 8:00 AM UTC(you can specify the time based on your needs). It:
    - Scans DynamoDB
    - Matches users whose reminder time + day match current UTC time
    - Fetches a quote of the day
    - Sends a personalized email via SES

---

## 🧪 Live Demo

![Live Demo](assets/live-demo.gif)

---

## 🚀 Deployment (via SAM)

> ⚙️ **Pre-requisites**:  
> Make sure you have the **AWS CLI** and **AWS SAM CLI** installed and configured locally with appropriate credentials.

```bash
# 1. Build
sam build

# 2. Deploy
sam deploy --guided

```

---
## 📖 Screenshots

### ✅ Lambda - ReminderSetupFunction
![Lambda SignupFunction](assets/remindersetupfunction.PNG)

### 📦 Lambda - SendReminderFunction
![Lambda - VerifyFunction](assets/sendreminderfunction.PNG)

### 🔔 S3 - Static Website
![S3 - Static Website](assets/aws-s3.PNG)

---

## 🧭 Possible Improvements

- Cognito login + user dashboard
- View, edit, and delete existing reminders
- Quote style selector (funny, deep, business)
- Styled unsubscribe footer and branding

---

## 📬 Contact

Built by **Kamran Zeynalov**

[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-blue?logo=linkedin&style=flat-square)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zeynalov-kamran/)
